

                        The `microtype' package
        An interface to the micro-typographic extensions of pdfTeX
                  ===================================
                         v2.3e      2009/11/09


* Overview
 ----------

The `microtype' package  provides a LaTeX interface to the  micro-typographic
extensions  of  pdfTeX:  most  prominently,  character  protrusion  and  font
expansion, furthermore the adjustment of  interword  spacing  and  additional
kerning, as well as hyphenatable letterspacing (tracking) and the possibility
to disable all or selected ligatures.
It allows  to apply these features  to  customisable  sets  of fonts,  and to
configure all micro-typographic aspects of the fonts in a straightforward and
flexible way. Settings for various fonts are provided.

Note that font expansion and character protrusion will only work with pdfTeX,
at least  version 0.14f.  Automatic font expansion  requires  version 1.20 or
newer.  Disabling  ligatures  requires  pdfTeX 1.30,  letterspacing  and  the
adjustment  of interword spacing  and of kerning  requires version 1.40.  The
package will by default enable protrusion and expansion if they can safely be
assumed  to work.  These two features  are also  available  with luaTeX.  The
`microtype' package does not work with XeTeX.

The alternative package  `letterspace',  which  also  works  with  plain  TeX,
provides the user commands  for letter-spacing only,  omitting support for all
other extensions.

The documentation can be found in microtype.pdf.


* Installation
 --------------

 - Run latex on microtype.ins to generate the package and configuration files
 - Move all files into a directory where LaTeX will find them,
   e.g., TEXMF/tex/latex/microtype/

 - Run (pdf)latex twice on microtype.dtx to create the documentation
 - For an index run:
      makeindex -s gind.ist -o microtype.ind microtype.idx
 - For the change history run:
      makeindex -s gglo.ist -o microtype.gls microtype.glo


* License
 ---------

This work  may be distributed and/or  modified  under the  conditions  of the
LaTeX Project Public License, either version 1.3c of this license or (at your
option)  any later version.  The  latest  version  of  this  license  is  in:
http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt,  and version 1.3c or later  is part of
all distributions of LaTeX version 2005/12/01 or later.

This work has the LPPL maintenance status `author-maintained'.

This work  consists of the files `microtype.dtx' and `microtype.ins'  and the
derived files `microtype.sty' and `letterspace.sty'.

Modified versions  of the  configuration  files  (*.cfg)  may be  distributed
provided  that  (1)  the original  copyright statement  is not  removed,  and
(2) the identification string is changed.

         ----------------------------------------------------
         Copyright (c) 2004--2009  R Schlicht <w.m.l@gmx.net>
         ----------------------------------------------------
